hello everybody my name is Gasol thank
you so much for coming I'm gonna be
talking about what we've been doing at
hash matter on some research and
development on privacy-preserving
peer-to-peer networks there is no way I
have enough time to talk about
everything so please let's grab a beer
afterwards and discuss about all the
things we bringing in today
so all right so the cool thing about
decentralized applications decentralized
networks is that we can remove these
huge entity in the middle of the
interactions between different users
right that's super cool it brings us a
lot of interesting brings a lot of
interesting properties to the network or
to the services one of the properties
that I'm interested the most is privacy
right so one of the big problems
nowadays is that basically these big
entities know or potentially know
everything I do right what are the
websites I'm visiting
what's my social graph etcetera etcetera
so one of the really cool things that
I'm super excited about the
centralization is that we can remove
this big entity from the picture and
what does that mean well privacy for
everyone right super cool unfortunately
not quite like that
so what I'd really like to sort of a
focus today is first of all to show that
unfortunately it's not the case but we
can get there right and kind of linking
these two things together based on what
we've been working on all right so I
would like to focus today on this real -
tables as if everyone know I guess by
this time this really hash tables are
basically like the bread and butter of
IVFs so collaborative peer-to-peer
overlay network that allows peers in the
network to resolve content resolve store
contents in a completely centralized way
no need for any central authority very
scalable etc etc so it's in a very high
level it provides every node in the
network with the API to get a specific
content ID and store a specific on today
all right so I think I don't know how to
play DS but maybe I can just go ahead I
don't think I had okay cool so the idea
this is just a show like very briefly
very high-level how actually as we all
know the sort of a
DHT routing and work so basically if I
don't know who has a particular ID or
Content ID I can actually ask to the
peers which I'd know if they know
someone which is closer to that ID so
basically I do this recursively right
and if you have very high level that's
more or less how things work and what we
actually so yeah the idea is that okay
cool thank you thank you so yeah so the
idea is that this is basically a like a
collaborative network right so basically
because we don't have anyone who knows
where all the resources are we have to
rely on our sort of friends not friends
but other nodes in the network to
resolve this content right so basically
what's happening is that we are in this
huge place full of people and we are
sharing at each other about what we want
from the network right it doesn't even
mean that it might be so that the what
we are talking about is completely
encrypted and by this means that I'm
talking with someone else in a complete
different language but the people around
me know that I'm talking with this
person right and this is like metadata
leakage that comes from these sort of
collaborative networks and this is a big
problem when it comes to peer-to-peer
networks right because if especially if
we're talking about content addressed of
all the rest of all networks what we
have is that the fact that we're
connecting or requesting for to a
particular from a particular peer it
means that we're interested in this
particular theory
so the idea is that or the big question
here how about privacy right the issues
are very cool very simple algorithms or
protocols that work very well but
unfortunately the same properties that
make the HDS great building blocks for
the decentralized or centralized web it
also makes them very vulnerable
privacy attacks right and there's a
bunch of like there's a bunch of
literature on these this is no science
rocket science and the problem though is
that if you want to build sort of an
application layer on top of this with
the hash tables or any other appear to
be a protocol we actually are trickling
or kind of bubbling up all these privacy
problems so the applications on top of
build built on top of these protocols
are actually gonna have the same privacy
vulnerabilities so one very quick
example of these is that if I'm sort of
storing my own web page and I'm actually
you as a sort of part of the DHD part of
IVFs network you can actually try to
find the provider of this particular
webpage which is mine and most likely
because I'm the only one who's actually
storing and and pinning in my own web
page you're gonna get me as a provider
right so the problem is that as I
actually move around you can check very
likely
what's my current IP and where I've been
going so these basically this graph this
plot or this picture if the kind of
things that you can actually see from
the Google sort of a Google Maps privacy
webpage right but this actually can
happen or anyone in some of the
centralized network can actually have
access of these information from anyone
in the network so one of the main ideas
here is that the problem is that like in
centralized services basically when an
entity gains a lot of information about
what people are doing and in naive
decentralized networks that's
information exactly potentially some
resolvable by everyone in the network
and everyone might be your neighbor
might be your like X company government
etcetera etcetera so this is exactly the
kind of problem we'll try to solve and
there's a bunch of other really cool
attacks if we could talk about let's
talk about it later on so all right so
about the solutions right that's
basically what we've been working on the
first thing is to see privacy in a more
granular way so basically we want to
make sure that initiator a bunch of like
not just see privacy as something
okay so yeah there's a bunch of like the
different granularities of what privacy
means in a decentralized network you can
talk about these later on and we also
obviously on top of this one low latency
decentralization we want scalability at
etc because we're very small in terms of
like experience on connected services so
we all want embedded in our future of
the internet and connected service all
right so what we're doing now is at the
hatch matter is like trying to come up
with this sort of a middle layer between
the overlay Network routing and
application layer right in which we can
embed like protocols or primitives that
will make it make sure that we're not
leaking any metadata on the application
level when making for example DHT
lookups right or any other sort of a
peer-to-peer construction in the bottom
and that's where there's a bunch of
interesting protocols to do that but
what I really wanted to talk to you
about is that there is a open source
library which were we are trying to sort
of take from research to research work
to actually software and there's already
a couple of very interesting protocols
such as an interrupting on top of IP FS
or the DHT using the HD nodes as onion
real layers mix networks as well a bunch
of plausible deniability protocols so
that you can make your HT lookups and
people will really not sure be sure
whether it's you or someone else so
there's a bunch of interesting things to
work on and there's definitely not time
for a demo talk to me about that later
on but yeah that's basically what we
were working on so how to incentivize
peers to create like privacy privacy
work and what are the protocols that we
can add and help like application
developers to use so that it's like they
can have their application this private
is possible for our decentralized
applications thank you I think I went so
much far thank you so much
I I deserved I deserve the Hat and take
it so much